---
title: "ai"
date: 2023-09-04
---

Deep convolutional neural networks are the model of choice for learning patterns within images. These models can learn to detect, classify [3] and segment objects within images. Using these models we can automate vision-related tasks. For instance self-driving cars rely heavily on a combination of classification and segmentation to operate. With the rise of cheap computing power, these models are more accessible in different fields. Medical imaging is one of the areas where vision models can be helpful. Deep Learning models can help doctors detect and segment cancer faster. Traditionally doctors would look at MRI images then estimate whether the cancer is present, and where it is located. The main focus of this paper is on Glioma cancer which develops mainly in the brain and spinal cord. It is difficult to remove this cancer using surgery, hence being able to prevent or detect this type of cancer early is very valuable. Recent studies show that lower-grade Glioma can progress to become dangerous. By detecting the patterns and classifying different types of lower-grade Glioma, various genetic properties of this cancer are being studied [7]. Deep models can make detection and segmentation processes a lot faster, cheaper, more accessible, and potentially more accurate. By gathering a collection of segmented MRI images by doctors, deep learning models can learn the patterns, and segment new MRI images. However, data collection is very difficult in radio images since some patients may choose to not share their MRI images publicly. Image augmentation can be a solution to the lack of big data in this field. Sufficient amounts of data can be generated by using various transformations and sampling methods. While augmenting images, the goal is to preserve the general features of an image but alter certain characteristics so that different neurons within the network are activated but the same results are achieved.
